--- Page 1 ---
Supreme Court of India
Orders of the Day - 11 September 2026
# Case Reference Page Len.
1 3S and Our Health Society vs. Union of India MA 1177/2025 in W.P.(C) No 2 4

--- Page 2 ---
ITEM NO.30               COURT NO.6               SECTION PIL-W
               S U P R E M E  C O U R T  O F  I N D I A
                       RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS
Miscellaneous Application No.1177/2025 in W.P.(C) No.437/2024
3S AND OUR HEALTH SOCIETY                          Petitioner(s)
                                VERSUS
UNION OF INDIA & ANR.                              Respondent(s)
[TO BE TAKEN HIGH UP ON BOARD] 
IA No. 308995/2025 - APPLICATION FOR TAKING ON RECORD
IA No. 154035/2025 - EXTENSION OF TIME
 
Date : 10-09-2026 This matter was called on for hearing today.
CORAM : 
         HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.B. PARDIWALA
         HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE K. VINOD CHANDRAN
For Petitioner(s) :Mr. Rajiv Shankar Dvivedi, AOR
                   Ms. Arti Dvivedi, Adv.
                   Mr. S.k. Sarkar, Adv.
                   Ms. Sugandha Bhardwaj, Adv.
                   Mr. Bhushan, Adv.
                   Ms. Priya, Adv.
                   Ms. Snigdha Singh, Adv.
                   Ms. Priyanka Parmar, Adv.
                   Ms. Sweta Singh, Adv.
                   
                   
For Respondent(s) :Mr. Brijender Chahar, A.S.G.
                   Ms. Madhulika Upadhyay, AOR
                   Mr. Anmol Chandan, Adv.
                   Mr. Bhuvan Kapoor, Adv.
                   Mr. Bhakti Vardhan Singh, Adv.
                   Mr. Gopi Chand, Adv.
                   Mr. Karan Chahar, Adv.
1

--- Page 3 ---
                   Mr. Shubham Saxena, Adv.
                   Mr. Vaishnav Kirti Singh, Adv.
                   
                   Mr. Sudarshan Lamba, AOR
                   
                   Mr. Maninder Singh, Sr. Adv.
                   Mr. Harsh Hiroo Gurshani, Adv.
                   Mr. Suhaan Mukerji, Adv.
                   Mr. Shubhank Patel, Adv.
                   M/s Plr Chambers And Co., AOR
                   
                   Mr. Nishanth Patil, AOR
                   
                   Mr. Rohit Sharma, Adv.
                   Mr. Nikhil Purohit, Adv.
                   Mr. Jatin Lalwani, Adv.
                   Mr. Kumar Dushyant Singh, AOR
                   
                   
                   Mr. Devadatt Kamat, Sr. Adv.
                   Mr. Harpreet Singh Gupta, AOR
                   Mr. Srajan Jain, Adv.
                   
                   
          UPON hearing the counsel the Court made the following
                             O R D E R
1. This Court passed the following directions as contained in the
signed reportable order in the above said matter:-
“50.Given the aforesaid stipulation in the Draft 2022 Guidelines, we would
like the FSSAI to respond specifically to the suggestion of the petitioner that
the final FoPL regime must be made mandatory from the get-go. If not, we
would like to know what is a reasonable period after which they intend to
make its compliance mandatory. 
       E.Nutritional literacy in schools
51.Throughout the hearing of the present matter, we have been made aware
that children are under acute risk of developing unhealthy eating behaviors
due to a variety of reasons. In that regard, the following observations of our
2

--- Page 4 ---
previous order are pertinent: 
“8. What compounds this concern is the scale of a child’s
exposure to such products, often before they are equipped to
evaluate what they are consuming. According to UNICEF’s
Child  Nutrition  Report  2025,  the  percentage  of  overweight
school-age children and adolescents (aged 5-19 years) increased
from 2% to 10% between 2000 to 2022. The said report also notes
a telling contrast in children’s immediate food environment.
While around 80% of the kinds of food and beverages available
within schools are freshly cooked meals, however, nearly 80% of
what is available in the vicinity of the school are packaged
snacks. It would be apposite to state that studies have found that
a child’s exposure to particular foods directly shape their dietary
preferences.”
52.   In connection with this, we would like the Union to respond on how
schools plan to incorporate through curriculum, initiatives, workshops etc.,
(i) the manner in which information provided in packaged food items,
including nutritional information, FoPL etc., must be interpreted, and (ii)
other aspects relating to nutritional literacy. In recognition of the vulnerable
position that children are in vis-à-vis impulse or uninformed dietary decision-
making, we are of the view some action must be taken in this regard. 
53.   In view of all the aforesaid, we would like the Union and the FSSAI
respectively to provide an appropriate response to the following questions: 
i. What is a reasonable and fixed timeline that the FSSAI envisages for
the implementation of the two phases currently proposed? 
ii. What is the basis for the FSSAI to suggest the inclusion of food
products high in ‘two or more’ nutrients-of-concern and specified
sweetened beverages in Phase I, and the inclusion of food products
high in ‘any one’ nutrient-of-concern in Phase II respectively? 
iii. How does the FSSAI propose to identify the specific sweetened
beverages which fall under Phase I of the proposal? Additionally, what
are the threshold levels of the specific nutrient(s)-in-concern for such
beverages? 
iv. Whether, in their calculation of the threshold levels for each nutrient-
of-concern, the FSSAI wishes to account for the difference between
food categories 2 and 3 respectively in the FoPL? 
v. Whether, in their calculation of the threshold levels for each nutrient-
of-concern, the FSSAI wishes to account for the difference between
food groups B (moderately  processed  with no additives) and C
(excessively processed with additives) respectively in the FoPL?
vi. Whether the threshold limits for Fat and Sugar are to be calculated on
the basis of ‘Total’ Sugar and ‘Saturated Fat’ as indicated in the
3

--- Page 5 ---
Stakeholders meeting conducted on 29.10.2021?  Furthermore, how
would trans-fat levels be factored into the calculations of the fat
content for the purpose of the FoPL?
vii. Considering that an average Indian consumer is habituated into
associating the colour red with non-veg ingredients, would it be
necessary for the FSSAI to revisit the choice of colour for the FoPL?  
viii. What are dimensions of the ‘red hexagon’ proposed to be used in the
FoPL? Whether it would have standardized specifications or whether
it would be calculated in proportion to the area of the package?
Whether the font size used for the FoPL would be relative to the
dimensions of the hexagon themselves? The manner and method of
the placement of such hexagon(s)? 
ix. Without the presence of distinct pictorial representations for each
nutrient-of-concern in the FoPL, how does the FSSAI propose to cater
to the diverse levels of comprehension, literacy, and reading capability
of the consuming population? 
x. Why  has  the  FSSAI  suggested  a  combined/composite/singular
hexagon  for  two  or  more  nutrients-of-concern   instead  of
separate/distinct/individual hexagons for each nutrient-of-concern? 
xi. How would the FSSAI regulate the potential increase in the use of
artificial  preservative,  emulsifiers  etc.,  which  may  result  as  a
consequence of the implementation of the FoPL?
xii. Once the final regulations making the FoPL mandatory come to be
notified, whether a voluntary period for compliance is envisaged? If
yes, for how long? 
xiii. How the Union of India proposes to incorporate through curriculum,
initiatives, workshops etc., (i) the manner in which information
provided in packaged food items, including nutritional information,
FoPL etc., must be interpreted, and (ii) other aspects relating to
nutritional literacy, at the school-level?
54.  Let the FSSAI file its response by way of an affidavit within a period of
10 days from the date of this order. The same shall be shared with the
petitioner for them to also file their response before the date of next hearing. 
55. Post the matter on 28.09.2026.”
2. List the matter on 28th September, 2026 on top of the Board.
(HARPREET KAUR)                                 (POOJA SHARMA)
COURT MASTER (SH)                             COURT MASTER (NSH)
(Signed reportable order is placed on the file)
4

